Console.md, before:

EMS-ESP has a telnet server that enables clients to connect using a telnet client such as [CoolTerm](http://freeware.the-meiers.org/), [PuTTY](https://www.chiark.greenend.org.uk/~sgtatham/putty/latest.html) or natively via the OS like this example with [Windows 10](https://www.technipages.com/windows-10-enable-telnet).

Connecting to the console will give you more insight into the EMS bus traffic, MQTT queues and the full device information.

The console is reachable via Telnet (port 22) or via the Serial port if using an USB (on baud 115200). To change any settings in the console you must be admin (use `su` with the default password `ems-esp-neo`).
  
Some of the most common commands are:
  * `help` lists the commands and keywords. This works in each context.
  * `exit` will exit the console or exit the current context. `CTRL-D` does the same.
  * `CTRL-U` for Undo
  * `<TAB>` for auto-complete
  * `system` to enter the system menu. Use `exit` or CTRL-D to return.
  * `su` will switch to the Admin super-user. The default password is `ems-esp-neo` and can be changed with `passwd` from the system menu or via the Web interface (called secret password). When in Admin mode the command prompt switches from `$` to `#`.
  * Some settings can be changed in the console. The `set` command will list them.
  * `show` shows the data specific to the which context you're in. From the root it will show you all the EMS device information and any external temperature sensors.
  * `show commands` will list all the commands which can called with the `call` command. See [Commands](API).
  * `log` sets the logging level. `log off` disables logging. Use `log debug` for debugging commands and actions. This will be reset next time the console is opened.
  * `watch` will output the incoming Rx telegrams directly to the console. You can also put on a watch on a specific EMS device ID or telegram ID. Also choose to output as verbose text as raw data bytes.

Connect to the IP address of the EMS-ESP. Type `?` or `help` to see a list of commands:

![Console](_media/console.PNG ':size=80%')

## Console Commands

```
* = available when Admin mode (su)

[main]
  su
  set
  fetch
  publish
  show
  show devices
  show ems
  show values
  show mqtt
  show commands
  call [device type] [cmd] [data] [n]
  read <device ID> <type ID> *
  scan devices [deep] *
  send telegram <"XX XX ..."> *
  set bus_id <device ID> *
  set tx_mode <n> *
  exit
  help
  log [level]
  watch <on | off | raw> [ID]
  set master thermostat [device ID] *
  system (see below...)

[system]
  set
  show system
  format *
  show users *
  passwd *
  restart *
  set wifi hostname <name> *
  set wifi password *
  set wifi ssid <name> *
  wifi reconnect *
  exit
  help
  log
  su
 ```

Commit message:

add examples of console commands, for dummies

Console.md, after:

EMS-ESP has a telnet server that enables clients to connect using a telnet client such as [PuTTY](https://www.chiark.greenend.org.uk/~sgtatham/putty/latest.html) or natively via the OS like this example with [Windows 10](https://www.technipages.com/windows-10-enable-telnet). The port is 22. 

If you're using an ESP32 you can also access the console via a USB Serial port, using baud 115200.

The console will give you more insight into the EMS bus traffic, MQTT queues and the full device information. It behaves similar to a Unix/Linux shell. Some of the most common commands are:

  * `help` lists the commands and keywords. This works in each context.
  * `exit` will exit the console or exit the current context. `CTRL-D` does the same.
  * `CTRL-U` for Undo
  * `<TAB>` for auto-complete
  * `system` to enter the system menu. Use `exit` or CTRL-D to return.
  * `su` will switch to the Admin super-user. The default password is `ems-esp-neo` and can be changed with `passwd` from the system menu or via the Web interface (called secret password). When in Admin mode the command prompt switches from `$` to `#`.
  * Some settings can be changed in the console. The `set` command will list them.
  * `show` shows the data specific to the which context you're in. From the root it will show you all the EMS device information and any external temperature sensors.
  * `show commands` will list all the commands which can called with the `call` command. See [Commands](API).
  * `log` sets the logging level. `log off` disables logging. Use `log debug` for debugging commands and actions. This will be reset next time the console is opened.
  * `watch` will output the incoming Rx telegrams directly to the console. You can also put on a watch on a specific EMS device ID or telegram ID. Also choose to output as verbose text as raw data bytes.

## Examples

### Calling a command to change values

Note you have `su` first to get access to all the `call` commands.

![Console](_media/console1.PNG ':size=80%')

### Showing device values
![Console](_media/console2.PNG ':size=80%')

### Monitoring the EMS traffic
![Console](_media/console3.PNG ':size=80%')

## Console Commands

The full list of console commands are shown below:

```
* = available when Admin mode (su)

[main]
  su
  set
  fetch
  publish
  show
  show devices
  show ems
  show values
  show mqtt
  show commands
  call [device type] [cmd] [data] [n]
  read <device ID> <type ID> *
  scan devices [deep] *
  send telegram <"XX XX ..."> *
  set bus_id <device ID> *
  set tx_mode <n> *
  exit
  help
  log [level]
  watch <on | off | raw> [ID]
  set master thermostat [device ID] *
  system

[system]
  set
  show system
  format *
  show users *
  passwd *
  restart *
  set wifi hostname <name> *
  set wifi password *
  set wifi ssid <name> *
  wifi reconnect *
  exit
  help
  log
  su
 ```
