docs/Boilers.md, before:

---
id: Boilers
---
# Boilers

This is the current list of supported boilers from brands like Buderus, Nefit, Sieger, Junkers and Bosch:

- BK13, BK15
- GB125, GB135, GB1x2i, GB162, GBx72, GB212, GB162, GB192, GB122, GB192i.2
- MC10
- Cascade CM10, MC400
- Logano
- Logamax Plus GB022, U122
- Logamatic MC10, MC110
- Condens 2500, GC9000
- Bosch/Junkers Cerapur GC2200W
- Logomatic
- Bosch/Junkers Cerapur Top, Aero
- Bosch/Junkers Cerapur ZSB 14-3 A
- Greenstar Si, 30Ri Compact, ErP, HIU, 8000
- Nefit Topline, Trendline
- Cascade MCM10
- Nefit Proline
- Nefit Smartline
- GC7000F, GC700iW, GC9800IW
- KB195i
- Hybrid Heatpump
- Enviline
- Compress 6000AW
- Hybrid 3000-7000iAW
- SupraEco
- WLW196i, WSW196i
- Condens 2300, 5000i
- Ecomline Excellent
- EasyControl Adapter

## Device Entities with Commands

:::info
The boiler commands below will vary depending on boiler type/brand and system configuration Some commands will not work because they are overwritten by controller or thermostat. In this case there are thermostat commands for this setting.
:::

:::warning this list is not complete and subject to change between versions
:::

| `command`            | `data`                                        | `id`  | `comments`                                                                           |
| ------------------ | ------------------------------------------- | --- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `comfort`          | `<hot \|eco \| intelligent>`                |     |                                                                                    |
| `flowtemp`         | `<degrees>`                                 |     | Limited to heatingtemp, set by thermostat if present                               |
| `wwsettemp`        | `<degrees>`                                 |     | Only if thermostat does not manage it                                              |
| `boilhyston`       | `<degrees>`                                 |     | Start burner below flowtemp (negative value), allowed range depends on boiler type |
| `boilhystoff`      | `<degrees>`                                 |     | Stop burner above flowtemp (positive value), allowed range depends on boiler type  |
| `burnperiod`       | `<minutes>`                                 |     |                                                                                    |
| `burnminpower`     | `<%>`                                       |     | Changeable only for modulated burners                                              |
| `burnmaxpower`     | `<%>`                                       |     | Changeable only for modulated burners                                              |
| `pumpdelay`        | `<minutes>`                                 |     |                                                                                    |
| `wwactivated`      | `<off \| on>`                               |     |                                                                                    |
| `wwtapactivated`   | `<off \| on>`                               |     | Special function working in boiler test-mode                                       |
| `wwonetime`        | `<off \| on>`                               |     | Overwritten by some thermostats, see thermostat commands                           |
| `wwcircpump`       | `<off \| on>`                               |     |                                                                                    |
| `wwcirc`           | `<off \| on>`                               |     | Overwritten by some thermostats, see thermostat commands                           |
| `wwcircmode`       | `<n>`                                       |     | (1=1x3min, .. 6=6x3min, 7=on)                                                      |
| `wwflowtempoffset` | `<degrees>`                                 |     | Offset to boiler temperature while preparing warm water                            |
| `wwmaxpower`       | `<%>`                                       |     | Maximum power for warm water heating                                               |
| `heatingactivated` | `<off \| on>`                               |     | Not changeable for some systems. i.g. Set by MC10 rotary control                   |
| `heatingtemp`      | `<degrees>`                                 |     | Upper limit for flowtemp, not changeable for some systems or overwritten (MC10)    |
| `maintenance`      | `<off \| <hours> \| <dd.mm.yyyy> \| reset>` |     | set maintenance to date or time or reset message                                   |
| `pumpmodmin`       | `<%>`                                       |     | Changeable only for modulated pumps                                                |
| `pumpmodmax`       | `<%>`                                       |     | Changeable only for modulated pumps                                                |
| `reset`            | `<error \| maintenance>`                    |     | Use `reset error` only if there is an active error!                                |

Commit message:

add title and description to each md file

docs/Boilers.md, after:

---
id: Boilers
title: Supported Boilers
description: Complete list of supported boiler models from Bosch, Buderus, Nefit, Junkers, Sieger, and Worcester brands
---
# Boilers

This is the current list of supported boilers from brands like Buderus, Nefit, Sieger, Junkers and Bosch:

- BK13, BK15
- GB125, GB135, GB1x2i, GB162, GBx72, GB212, GB162, GB192, GB122, GB192i.2
- MC10
- Cascade CM10, MC400
- Logano
- Logamax Plus GB022, U122
- Logamatic MC10, MC110
- Condens 2500, GC9000
- Bosch/Junkers Cerapur GC2200W
- Logomatic
- Bosch/Junkers Cerapur Top, Aero
- Bosch/Junkers Cerapur ZSB 14-3 A
- Greenstar Si, 30Ri Compact, ErP, HIU, 8000
- Nefit Topline, Trendline
- Cascade MCM10
- Nefit Proline
- Nefit Smartline
- GC7000F, GC700iW, GC9800IW
- KB195i
- Hybrid Heatpump
- Enviline
- Compress 6000AW
- Hybrid 3000-7000iAW
- SupraEco
- WLW196i, WSW196i
- Condens 2300, 5000i
- Ecomline Excellent
- EasyControl Adapter

## Device Entities with Commands

:::info
The boiler commands below will vary depending on boiler type/brand and system configuration Some commands will not work because they are overwritten by controller or thermostat. In this case there are thermostat commands for this setting.
:::

:::warning this list is not complete and subject to change between versions
:::

| `command`            | `data`                                        | `id`  | `comments`                                                                           |
| ------------------ | ------------------------------------------- | --- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `comfort`          | `<hot \|eco \| intelligent>`                |     |                                                                                    |
| `flowtemp`         | `<degrees>`                                 |     | Limited to heatingtemp, set by thermostat if present                               |
| `wwsettemp`        | `<degrees>`                                 |     | Only if thermostat does not manage it                                              |
| `boilhyston`       | `<degrees>`                                 |     | Start burner below flowtemp (negative value), allowed range depends on boiler type |
| `boilhystoff`      | `<degrees>`                                 |     | Stop burner above flowtemp (positive value), allowed range depends on boiler type  |
| `burnperiod`       | `<minutes>`                                 |     |                                                                                    |
| `burnminpower`     | `<%>`                                       |     | Changeable only for modulated burners                                              |
| `burnmaxpower`     | `<%>`                                       |     | Changeable only for modulated burners                                              |
| `pumpdelay`        | `<minutes>`                                 |     |                                                                                    |
| `wwactivated`      | `<off \| on>`                               |     |                                                                                    |
| `wwtapactivated`   | `<off \| on>`                               |     | Special function working in boiler test-mode                                       |
| `wwonetime`        | `<off \| on>`                               |     | Overwritten by some thermostats, see thermostat commands                           |
| `wwcircpump`       | `<off \| on>`                               |     |                                                                                    |
| `wwcirc`           | `<off \| on>`                               |     | Overwritten by some thermostats, see thermostat commands                           |
| `wwcircmode`       | `<n>`                                       |     | (1=1x3min, .. 6=6x3min, 7=on)                                                      |
| `wwflowtempoffset` | `<degrees>`                                 |     | Offset to boiler temperature while preparing warm water                            |
| `wwmaxpower`       | `<%>`                                       |     | Maximum power for warm water heating                                               |
| `heatingactivated` | `<off \| on>`                               |     | Not changeable for some systems. i.g. Set by MC10 rotary control                   |
| `heatingtemp`      | `<degrees>`                                 |     | Upper limit for flowtemp, not changeable for some systems or overwritten (MC10)    |
| `maintenance`      | `<off \| <hours> \| <dd.mm.yyyy> \| reset>` |     | set maintenance to date or time or reset message                                   |
| `pumpmodmin`       | `<%>`                                       |     | Changeable only for modulated pumps                                                |
| `pumpmodmax`       | `<%>`                                       |     | Changeable only for modulated pumps                                                |
| `reset`            | `<error \| maintenance>`                    |     | Use `reset error` only if there is an active error!                                |
