docs/Building.md, before:

---
id: Building
---
# Building the firmware

## Prerequisites

It is assumed you have a basic understanding of coding and building software for microcontrollers using git and using PlatformIO.

You can either use the [dev container](https://containers.dev/) (see below) or setup up everything locally. When running locally it's strongly recommended to use a Linux environment (like WSL for Windows) as it's builds almost 3 times faster than on native Windows. You'll need to install the following software packages:

- [PlatformIO](https://platformio.org/)
- [Node.js](https://nodejs.org)
- [pnpm](https://pnpm.io/installation)
- [VSCode](https://code.visualstudio.com/) with git and the [pioarduino](https://github.com/pioarduino/pioarduino) extension. The installation of pioarduino is like PlatformIO IDE for VSCode. Search for pioarduino on the Visual Studio Code Marketplace and follow the documentation PlatformIO IDE for VSCode how to install.

## Building the firmware

First create a local PlatformIO configuration file by copying the example file `pio_local.ini_example` to `pio_local.ini` and modify it to your needs, for example by setting the target board you want to build for with `default_envs` or adding debug information with `my_build_flags`.

Before building the firmware you need to first create the WebUI distribution files by either running `pio run -e build_webUI` or `pnpm build` from the `interface` folder. This will create the file `src/ESP32React/WWWData.h` which is used by the firmware.

Then to build the firmware run `pio run -e <your_environment_name>` or just `pio run` if you have a default environment set in your `pio_local.ini` file.

## Uploading the firmware

To upload the firmware to your ESP32 device you can use the `pio run -e upload` command. There are two ways to upload the firmware: via USB or via OTA. To use OTA make sure `upload_protocol` is commented out in your `pio_local.ini` file and then PlatformIO will automatically detect the USB (you can also specific using the `upload_port` parameter). When using OTA set `upload_protocol` to `custom` and `custom_emsesp_ip` to the IP address of your EMS-ESP device. This is fastest way to upload the firmware to your device but obviously needs EMS-ESP to be running and accessible.

## Testing locally

### WebUI development

The WebUI can be developed and tested in real-time using mock dummy data in the file `/mock-api/restServer.ts`. This is useful when making changes to the Web UI, testing translations or watching the behaviour when test data changes.

You will need to install an additional software package, [bun](https://bun.com/docs/installation).

To build the mock API data service:

```sh
cd mock-api
pnpm install
```

and then from the `interface` folder run:

```sh
pnpm standalone
```

This will open a browser window with URL `http://localhost:3000`.

### Simulating offline, without an ESP32 microcontroller

You can also run EMS-ESP without an ESP32 (which we call 'standalone'). The PlatformIO environment has two `native` type environments that will build `emsesp` executables compatible with Linux, Windows and Max OSX.

```sh
pio run -e standalone -t exec
```

When the standalone is running, you'll see the EMS-ESP Console. From here you can use the `test` command to run tests. `test general` is a generic test that will setup a standard boiler and thermostat with all its default entities. All the tests are hardcoded in the file `test/test.cpp` and can be easily adapted.

There are also a set of Unit Tests which can be run from the pio environment as well with `pio run -e native-test -t exec`. This works natively on every platform and doesn't require any additional setup.

### Using a dev container

You can use the dev container locally or spin up a codespace on github. When using the dev container and running the standalone UI you have to run the standalone-devcontainer script instead of the default standalone one. Otherwise your vite port wont be accessible from your machine.

```sh
pnpm standalone-devcontainer
```

#### GitHub Codespace

Click "Code" and the "Create codespace on dev" to start a codespace that you can use for developing without having to install anything locally.

![Codespace start](/media/screenshot/codespace_start.jpg)

### The partition structure

| Name       | Type       | SubType  | Offset        | Size               | Notes                           | File                            |
|------------|------------|----------|---------------|--------------------|---------------------------------|---------------------------------|
| bootloader |            |          | 0x0000/0x1000 | 0x8000   (32 KB)   | ESP32-S3=0x1000, ESP32=0x1000   | bootloader*.bin                 |
| partitions |            |          | 0x8000        | 0x1000   (4 KB)    | same for each board             | partitions*.bin                 |
| -          |            |          |               |                    |                                 |                                 |
| nvs        | data       | nvs      | 0x9000        | 0x5000   (20 KB)   | reserved for ESP32              |                                 |
| otadata    | data       | ota      | 0xE000        | 0x2000   (8 KB)    | same for each board             | boot_app0*.bin                  |
| boot       | app        | factory  | 0x10000       | 0x480000 (4.5 MB)  | default boot partition          | EMS-ESP firmware *.bin/loader   |
| app0       | app        | ota_0    | 0x290000      | 0x490000 (4.56 MB) | OTA cycle 1                     | EMS-ESP firmware *.bin          |
| app1       | app        | ota_1    | 0x510000      | 0x490000 (4.56 MB) | OTA cycle 2                     | EMS-ESP firmware *.bin          |
| nvs1       | data       | nvs      | 0xAA0000      | 0x040000 (256 KB)  | custom for EMS-ESP              | (generated by script)           |
| spiffs     | data       | spiffs   | 0xAA0000      | 0x200000 (2 MB)    | for LittleFS/EMS-ESP filesystem | (not used)                      |
| coredump   | data       | coredump | 0xCE0000      | 0x010000 (64 KB)   |                                 |                                 |

- Reference: [ESP-IDF Partition Tables](https://docs.espressif.com/projects/esp-idf/en/latest/esp32/api-guides/partition-tables.html)
- There are 3 places where the EMS-ESP firmware is stored:
  - `boot` is the default used on fresh installs.
  - `app0` and `app1` are the firmware partitions used during OTA updates, and cycles between the two. The firmware is loaded into one of these non-active partitions, and then the device is rebooted.
- The bootloader (called second stage) is the `bootloader_dio_80m.bin` executable and is used to read the partition table at offset 0x8000 and determine which partitions are available. Note the bootloader's offset is different per chip type. ESP32 is [0x1000](https://docs.espressif.com/projects/esp-idf/en/stable/esp32/api-guides/bootloader.html#bootloader) and ESP32-S3 is [0x0000](https://docs.espressif.com/projects/esp-idf/en/stable/esp32s3/api-guides/bootloader.html#bootloader). This is handled in our script `upload.sh` for each Model type in the parameter `bootloader_address`.
- The partition `otadata` is used to hold a small application used to determine which partition (boot, app0, app1) to use. It will query the data stored in `partitions` block.
- EMS-ESP can be restarted to other partitions using the command `restart <boot|app0|app1>`.
- The EMS-ESP Console/API command `show system` will show the current partition and the partition that will be booted after a restart.
- With all the board/chip types, the `boot_app0.bin` and `partitions.bin` are the same file for each board. Only the `bootloader.bin` is different. But we keep local copies to keep things tidy in a single folder.

Commit message:

add title and description to each md file

docs/Building.md, after:

---
id: Building
title: Building the Firmware
description: Guide to building EMS-ESP firmware from source using PlatformIO and dev containers
---
# Building the firmware

## Prerequisites

It is assumed you have a basic understanding of coding and building software for microcontrollers using git and using PlatformIO.

You can either use the [dev container](https://containers.dev/) (see below) or setup up everything locally. When running locally it's strongly recommended to use a Linux environment (like WSL for Windows) as it's builds almost 3 times faster than on native Windows. You'll need to install the following software packages:

- [PlatformIO](https://platformio.org/)
- [Node.js](https://nodejs.org)
- [pnpm](https://pnpm.io/installation)
- [VSCode](https://code.visualstudio.com/) with git and the [pioarduino](https://github.com/pioarduino/pioarduino) extension. The installation of pioarduino is like PlatformIO IDE for VSCode. Search for pioarduino on the Visual Studio Code Marketplace and follow the documentation PlatformIO IDE for VSCode how to install.

## Building the firmware

First create a local PlatformIO configuration file by copying the example file `pio_local.ini_example` to `pio_local.ini` and modify it to your needs, for example by setting the target board you want to build for with `default_envs` or adding debug information with `my_build_flags`.

Before building the firmware you need to first create the WebUI distribution files by either running `pio run -e build_webUI` or `pnpm build` from the `interface` folder. This will create the file `src/ESP32React/WWWData.h` which is used by the firmware.

Then to build the firmware run `pio run -e <your_environment_name>` or just `pio run` if you have a default environment set in your `pio_local.ini` file.

## Uploading the firmware

To upload the firmware to your ESP32 device you can use the `pio run -e upload` command. There are two ways to upload the firmware: via USB or via OTA. To use OTA make sure `upload_protocol` is commented out in your `pio_local.ini` file and then PlatformIO will automatically detect the USB (you can also specific using the `upload_port` parameter). When using OTA set `upload_protocol` to `custom` and `custom_emsesp_ip` to the IP address of your EMS-ESP device. This is fastest way to upload the firmware to your device but obviously needs EMS-ESP to be running and accessible.

## Testing locally

### WebUI development

The WebUI can be developed and tested in real-time using mock dummy data in the file `/mock-api/restServer.ts`. This is useful when making changes to the Web UI, testing translations or watching the behaviour when test data changes.

You will need to install an additional software package, [bun](https://bun.com/docs/installation).

To build the mock API data service:

```sh
cd mock-api
pnpm install
```

and then from the `interface` folder run:

```sh
pnpm standalone
```

This will open a browser window with URL `http://localhost:3000`.

### Simulating offline, without an ESP32 microcontroller

You can also run EMS-ESP without an ESP32 (which we call 'standalone'). The PlatformIO environment has two `native` type environments that will build `emsesp` executables compatible with Linux, Windows and Max OSX.

```sh
pio run -e standalone -t exec
```

When the standalone is running, you'll see the EMS-ESP Console. From here you can use the `test` command to run tests. `test general` is a generic test that will setup a standard boiler and thermostat with all its default entities. All the tests are hardcoded in the file `test/test.cpp` and can be easily adapted.

There are also a set of Unit Tests which can be run from the pio environment as well with `pio run -e native-test -t exec`. This works natively on every platform and doesn't require any additional setup.

### Using a dev container

You can use the dev container locally or spin up a codespace on github. When using the dev container and running the standalone UI you have to run the standalone-devcontainer script instead of the default standalone one. Otherwise your vite port wont be accessible from your machine.

```sh
pnpm standalone-devcontainer
```

#### GitHub Codespace

Click "Code" and the "Create codespace on dev" to start a codespace that you can use for developing without having to install anything locally.

![Codespace start](/media/screenshot/codespace_start.jpg)

### The partition structure

| Name       | Type       | SubType  | Offset        | Size               | Notes                           | File                            |
|------------|------------|----------|---------------|--------------------|---------------------------------|---------------------------------|
| bootloader |            |          | 0x0000/0x1000 | 0x8000   (32 KB)   | ESP32-S3=0x1000, ESP32=0x1000   | bootloader*.bin                 |
| partitions |            |          | 0x8000        | 0x1000   (4 KB)    | same for each board             | partitions*.bin                 |
| -          |            |          |               |                    |                                 |                                 |
| nvs        | data       | nvs      | 0x9000        | 0x5000   (20 KB)   | reserved for ESP32              |                                 |
| otadata    | data       | ota      | 0xE000        | 0x2000   (8 KB)    | same for each board             | boot_app0*.bin                  |
| boot       | app        | factory  | 0x10000       | 0x480000 (4.5 MB)  | default boot partition          | EMS-ESP firmware *.bin/loader   |
| app0       | app        | ota_0    | 0x290000      | 0x490000 (4.56 MB) | OTA cycle 1                     | EMS-ESP firmware *.bin          |
| app1       | app        | ota_1    | 0x510000      | 0x490000 (4.56 MB) | OTA cycle 2                     | EMS-ESP firmware *.bin          |
| nvs1       | data       | nvs      | 0xAA0000      | 0x040000 (256 KB)  | custom for EMS-ESP              | (generated by script)           |
| spiffs     | data       | spiffs   | 0xAA0000      | 0x200000 (2 MB)    | for LittleFS/EMS-ESP filesystem | (not used)                      |
| coredump   | data       | coredump | 0xCE0000      | 0x010000 (64 KB)   |                                 |                                 |

- Reference: [ESP-IDF Partition Tables](https://docs.espressif.com/projects/esp-idf/en/latest/esp32/api-guides/partition-tables.html)
- There are 3 places where the EMS-ESP firmware is stored:
  - `boot` is the default used on fresh installs.
  - `app0` and `app1` are the firmware partitions used during OTA updates, and cycles between the two. The firmware is loaded into one of these non-active partitions, and then the device is rebooted.
- The bootloader (called second stage) is the `bootloader_dio_80m.bin` executable and is used to read the partition table at offset 0x8000 and determine which partitions are available. Note the bootloader's offset is different per chip type. ESP32 is [0x1000](https://docs.espressif.com/projects/esp-idf/en/stable/esp32/api-guides/bootloader.html#bootloader) and ESP32-S3 is [0x0000](https://docs.espressif.com/projects/esp-idf/en/stable/esp32s3/api-guides/bootloader.html#bootloader). This is handled in our script `upload.sh` for each Model type in the parameter `bootloader_address`.
- The partition `otadata` is used to hold a small application used to determine which partition (boot, app0, app1) to use. It will query the data stored in `partitions` block.
- EMS-ESP can be restarted to other partitions using the command `restart <boot|app0|app1>`.
- The EMS-ESP Console/API command `show system` will show the current partition and the partition that will be booted after a restart.
- With all the board/chip types, the `boot_app0.bin` and `partitions.bin` are the same file for each board. Only the `bootloader.bin` is different. But we keep local copies to keep things tidy in a single folder.
