docs/Console.md, before:

---
id: Console
---
# Console

EMS-ESP has a telnet server that enables clients to connect using a telnet client such as [PuTTY](https://www.chiark.greenend.org.uk/~sgtatham/putty/latest.html) or natively via the OS like this example with [Windows](https://www.technipages.com/windows-10-enable-telnet). The port is 23.

You can also access the console via a USB Serial port, using baud 115200. You will need to press CTRL-D to open the Serial console.

The console will give you more insight into the EMS bus traffic, MQTT queues and the full device information its capturing. It behaves similar to a Unix/Linux shell. Some of the most common commands are:

- `help` or `F1` lists the commands and keywords. This works in each context.
- `exit` will exit the console or exit the current context. `CTRL-D` does the same.
- `CTRL-U` for Undo or clearing the line.
- `<TAB>` for auto-complete
- `system` to enter the system menu. Use `exit` or CTRL-D to return.
- `su` will switch to the "super user" or admin mode. The default password is `ems-esp-neo` and can be changed with `passwd` from the system menu or via the Web interface (called secret password). When in su mode the command prompt switches from `$` to `#`.
- Some settings can be changed in the console. The `set` command will list them.
- `show` or `F2` shows the data specific to the which context you're in. From the root it will show you all the EMS device information and any external Dallas temperature sensors.
- `show commands` or `call` will list all the commands which can called with the `call` command. See [Commands](Commands).
- `log` sets the logging level. `log off` disables logging. Use `log debug` for debugging commands and actions, `log all` includes the telegrams like `watch on`. This will be reset next time the console is opened.
- `watch` will output the incoming Rx telegrams directly to the console. You can also put on a watch on a specific EMS device ID or telegram ID or unknown (new) telegrams. Also choose to output as verbose text as raw data bytes.

## Console Commands

Typing `help` will list the available commands. Some admin commands are only active after first a `su` command is entered.

```yaml
exit
help
log [level]
show [system | users | devices | log | ems | values | mqtt | commands
su
passwd
restart [partitionname]
wifi reconnect
set admin password
set wifi password
set hostname <name>
set wifi ssid <name>
set board_profile <name>
set bus_id <deviceID>
set tx_mode <n>
set service <ap | mqtt | ntp> <enable | disable>
scan [deep]
read <deviceID> <type ID> [offset] [length]
watch [off | on | raw | unknown] [ID]
call [device] [cmd] [data] [id|hc]
```

## Examples

### Calling a command to change values

Note you have `su` first to get access to all the `call` commands.

![Console](/media/screenshot/console1.png)

### Showing device values

![Console](/media/screenshot/console0.png)

### Monitoring the EMS traffic

Using the `watch` command you can monitor the incoming EMS telegrams.

Syntax is `watch on <ID>` where ID is either a Telegram ID and also a Device ID.

Note the CRC byte is excluded from the data package.

If you want to see only telegrams that are not registered yet, use `watch unknown`

If you want to see the raw bytes including CRC as transmitted on the EMS line use `watch raw <ID>`.

![Console](/media/screenshot/console3.png)

Commit message:

add title and description to each md file

docs/Console.md, after:

---
id: Console
title: Console Access
description: Access EMS-ESP console via Telnet or USB Serial for advanced monitoring and command execution
---
# Console

EMS-ESP has a telnet server that enables clients to connect using a telnet client such as [PuTTY](https://www.chiark.greenend.org.uk/~sgtatham/putty/latest.html) or natively via the OS like this example with [Windows](https://www.technipages.com/windows-10-enable-telnet). The port is 23.

You can also access the console via a USB Serial port, using baud 115200. You will need to press CTRL-D to open the Serial console.

The console will give you more insight into the EMS bus traffic, MQTT queues and the full device information its capturing. It behaves similar to a Unix/Linux shell. Some of the most common commands are:

- `help` or `F1` lists the commands and keywords. This works in each context.
- `exit` will exit the console or exit the current context. `CTRL-D` does the same.
- `CTRL-U` for Undo or clearing the line.
- `<TAB>` for auto-complete
- `system` to enter the system menu. Use `exit` or CTRL-D to return.
- `su` will switch to the "super user" or admin mode. The default password is `ems-esp-neo` and can be changed with `passwd` from the system menu or via the Web interface (called secret password). When in su mode the command prompt switches from `$` to `#`.
- Some settings can be changed in the console. The `set` command will list them.
- `show` or `F2` shows the data specific to the which context you're in. From the root it will show you all the EMS device information and any external Dallas temperature sensors.
- `show commands` or `call` will list all the commands which can called with the `call` command. See [Commands](Commands).
- `log` sets the logging level. `log off` disables logging. Use `log debug` for debugging commands and actions, `log all` includes the telegrams like `watch on`. This will be reset next time the console is opened.
- `watch` will output the incoming Rx telegrams directly to the console. You can also put on a watch on a specific EMS device ID or telegram ID or unknown (new) telegrams. Also choose to output as verbose text as raw data bytes.

## Console Commands

Typing `help` will list the available commands. Some admin commands are only active after first a `su` command is entered.

```yaml
exit
help
log [level]
show [system | users | devices | log | ems | values | mqtt | commands
su
passwd
restart [partitionname]
wifi reconnect
set admin password
set wifi password
set hostname <name>
set wifi ssid <name>
set board_profile <name>
set bus_id <deviceID>
set tx_mode <n>
set service <ap | mqtt | ntp> <enable | disable>
scan [deep]
read <deviceID> <type ID> [offset] [length]
watch [off | on | raw | unknown] [ID]
call [device] [cmd] [data] [id|hc]
```

## Examples

### Calling a command to change values

Note you have `su` first to get access to all the `call` commands.

![Console](/media/screenshot/console1.png)

### Showing device values

![Console](/media/screenshot/console0.png)

### Monitoring the EMS traffic

Using the `watch` command you can monitor the incoming EMS telegrams.

Syntax is `watch on <ID>` where ID is either a Telegram ID and also a Device ID.

Note the CRC byte is excluded from the data package.

If you want to see only telegrams that are not registered yet, use `watch unknown`

If you want to see the raw bytes including CRC as transmitted on the EMS line use `watch raw <ID>`.

![Console](/media/screenshot/console3.png)
